---
title: "Incidence and mortality of lung cancer in China, 2008 - 2012"
author: Shuzheng Liu, <strong>Qiong Chen</strong>, Lanwei Guo, Xiaoqin Cao, Xibin Sun, Wanqing Chen, Jie He
date: 2018-12-30
slug: lung-cancer-china
categories: 
 - 英文论文
 - 共同作者
tags:
 - Lung cancer
 - Epidemiology
 - Cancer registration
details: <em>Chin J Cancer Res</em>, 2018 Dec;30(6):580-587
doi: 10.21147/j.issn.1000-9604.2018.06.02
link: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6328502/pdf/cjcr-30-6-580.pdf
---

## Objective
To analyze the incidence and mortality rates of lung cancer in China from 2008 to 2012.

## Methods
Incident and death cases of lung cancer were retrieved from the National Central Cancer Registry (NCCR) database collecting from 135 cancer registries in China during 2008-2012. The crude incidence and mortality rates of lung cancer were calculated by area (urban/rural), region (eastern, middle, western), gender and age group (0, 1-4, 5-9, …, 85+). China census in 2000 and Segi's world population were applied for age-standardized rates. JoinPoint (Version 4.5.0.1) model was used for time trend analysis.

## Results
The crude incidence rate of lung cancer was 54.66/100,000 which ranked the first in overall cancers. The age-standardized incidence rates by China population (ASIRC) and by World population (ASIRW) were 35.13/100,000 and 34.86/100,000, respectively. The crude mortality of lung cancer in China was 45.60/100,000 and it was the first cause of cancer-related death in overall cancers. The age-standardized mortality rates by Chinese standard population (ASMRC) and by world standard population (ASMRW) were 28.57/100,000 and 28.22/100,000, respectively. Incidence and mortality rates of lung cancer were higher in males than in females and higher in urban areas than in rural areas. Eastern areas had the highest incidence and mortality rates followed by middle and western areas. Incidence and mortality rates of lung cancer retained low level in age groups before 40 years old but increased greatly after and peaked in age group of 80-84. During 2003-2012, the temporal trend of the incidence rate of lung cancer in both sexes in China was general stable (P<0.05). The lung cancer incidence rate increased by 0.71% per year in females (P<0.05) and 2.26% per year in rural areas (P<0.05). The mortality rate of lung cancer decreased slightly annually during 2003-2012 in China (P>0.05). In urban areas, it declined by 0.76% per year (P<0.05), but rose by 2.09% per year (P<0.05) in rural areas.

## Conclusions
Appropriate targeted prevention, early detection and treatment programs should be carried out to control the local burden of lung cancer.

**Keywords**: China; Lung cancer; incidence; mortality.
